README.md, before:

# Creating React app from scratch using CLI (command line interface)

- [Creating React app from scratch using CLI (command line interface)](#creating-react-app-from-scratch-using-cli-command-line-interface)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Initialise react app](#initialise-react-app)
  - [HelloWorld component](#helloworld-component)
  - [TypeScript](#typescript)
  - [Material UI and Icons](#material-ui-and-icons)
  - [Storybook with TypeScript](#storybook-with-typescript)
    - [Storybook/knobs](#storybookknobs)
    - [Storybook/state](#storybookstate)
  - [Classnames](#classnames)
  - [Redux](#redux)
    - [redux-logger](#redux-logger)
    - [immutability-helper](#immutability-helper)
  - [Socket.io](#socketio)

## Prerequisites

- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
  - Extensions: 
    - Prettier   (to enable formattign: `File` => `Preferences` =>  `Settings`, check `Format On Save`)
    - TSLint
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/)
- [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/)

## Initialise react app

Open Visual Studio Code, navigate to folder where you'd like to create your application. Press `ctrl + ~` to open terminal (powershell) and inter those commands:

```javascript
yarn global add create-react-app        // installs create-react-app script **globally** on machine
mkdir client                            // create-react-app will fail if folder doesn't start with lowercase
create-react-app client
cd client
yarn                                    // download all dependencies into node_modules
yarn start                              // starts development server (watch)
yarn test                               // runs tests (watch)
```

## HelloWorld component

Create file `helloworld.jsx` in `client\components` folder. Inside create a simple react component that can be later mounted in App:

```typescript
class HelloWorld extends React.Component {
    render() {
        return <h1>Hello, {this.props.name}</h1>;
    }
}
```

Add proper import to App.js and include new component in it's render method:

```typescript
import HelloWorld from './components/helloworld'
```

____

## TypeScript

Detailed instruction can be found [on create-react-app website](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/adding-typescript/)

```javascript
yarn global add tslint typescript
yarn add typescript @types/node @types/react @types/react-dom @types/jest
```

- rename `App.js` => `App.tsx` (`.ts` won't work, since App uses JSX syntax)
- modify existing HelloWorld component to use TypeScript:

    ```typescript
    import React from 'react';
    import { createStyles, WithStyles, withStyles, Theme } from '@material-ui/core/styles';

    const styles = (theme: Theme) =>
        createStyles({
            wrapper: {
                backgroundColor: theme.palette.primary.main,
            },
        });

    interface HelloWorldProps {
        name: string;
    }

    class HelloWorld extends React.Component<HelloWorldProps & WithStyles<typeof styles, true>> {
        render() {
            return <h1 className={this.props.classes.wrapper}>Hello, {this.props.name}</h1>;
        }
    }

    export default withStyles(styles, { withTheme: true })(HelloWorld);
    ```

- restart development server  (yarn start)

____

## Material UI and Icons

We will be adding [material ui](https://material-ui.com/) since it's good support.

```javascript
yarn add @material-ui/core @material-ui/icons
```

____

## Storybook with TypeScript

Detailed instructions can be found [on storybook website](https://storybook.js.org/docs/guides/guide-react/)

```javascript
npx -p @storybook/cli sb init --type react
```

[Typescript configuration](https://storybook.js.org/docs/configurations/typescript-config/)

```javascript
yarn add -D typescript awesome-typescript-loader @storybook/addon-info react-docgen-typescript-loader jest "@types/jest" ts-jest
```

- create `client/.storybook/webpack.config.js` with this contents:

    ```typescript
    module.exports = ({ config }) => {
        config.module.rules.push({
            test: /\.(ts|tsx)$/,
            use: [
                {
                    loader: require.resolve('awesome-typescript-loader'),
                },
                // Optional
                {
                    loader: require.resolve('react-docgen-typescript-loader'),
                },
            ],
        });
        config.resolve.extensions.push('.ts', '.tsx');
        return config;
    };
    ```

- modify `client/.storybook/config.js`  change line 4 to:

    ```typescript
    configure(require.context('../stories', true, /\.stories\.tsx$/), module);
    ```

- ceate new story with `.tsx` extension

    ```typescript
    import React from 'react';
    import { storiesOf } from '@storybook/react';
    import Card from '../src/components/card';

    storiesOf('Cards', module).add('Single card', () => (
        <Card Value={3} IsSelected={false} onSelection={val => {}} />
    ));
    ```

### Storybook/knobs

Add support for [Knobs](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/tree/master/addons/knobs)

```javascript
yarn add @storybook/addon-knobs --dev
```

- Add `import '@storybook/addon-knobs/register';` to `client/.storybook/addons.js`

Adding knobs to the story, require adding a decorator and import:

```typescript
/* ... */
import { text, withKnobs, boolean, number } from '@storybook/addon-knobs';

storiesOf('Cards', module)
    .addDecorator(withKnobs)            // add decorator here
    .add('Single card', () => <Card Title={text('Title', 'Test title')} />);
```

### Storybook/state

To add support for [Storybook/State](https://github.com/dump247/storybook-state)

```javascript
yarn add @dump247/storybook-state --dev
```

Modify a story to add state object

```typescript
storiesOf('Cards', module)
    .addDecorator(withKnobs)
    .add(
        'Card with knobs and store',
        withState({ IsSelected: false })(({ store }) => (
            <Card
                Value={number('Value', 3)}
                IsSelected={store.state.IsSelected}
                onClick={() => {
                    store.set({ IsSelected: !store.state.IsSelected });
                    action('clicked');
                }}
            />
        ))
    )
```

____

## Classnames

You can use [Classnames](https://www.npmjs.com/package/classnames) for Easier management of conditional classes in JSX components

```javascript
yarn add classnames @types/classnames
```

If you want to switch classes from `normal` to `selected` but always keep `card` class on target object, this will be proper syntax using `classnames`:

```typescript
var wrapperClasses = classNames({
    [classes.card]: true,
    [classes.selected]: this.props.IsSelected,
    [classes.normal]: !this.props.IsSelected,
});
```

____

## Redux

- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53111195/typescript-with-classnames-no-index-signature
- https://redux.js.org/recipes/usage-with-typescript
- Working example: https://codesandbox.io/s/w02m7jm3q7

```javascript
yarn add redux react-redux redux-actions @types/react-redux @types/redux-actions
```

### redux-logger

Redux logger outputs each action (and state) to console

```javascript
yarn add redux-logger @types/redux-logger
```

After adding package you need to configure store to use logger as middleware in `client\src\store\index.ts` file. Don't do this yet, it will be explained below.

```typescript
export default function CreateStore() {
    return createStore(rootReducer, initialState, compose(applyMiddleware(logger)));
}
```

### immutability-helper

In order to modify state without mutating it (required for Redux state) we can use [react imutability helper](https://github.com/kolodny/immutability-helper). If they're used incorreclty they can break TypeScript!

```javascript
yarn add immutability-helper
```

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/35628774/how-to-update-single-value-inside-specific-array-item-in-redux

- Create store schema/structure in `client\src\store\model\index.ts`

    ````typescript
    export type Id = string;

    export interface StoryState {
        Title: string;
        IsVoteRevealed: boolean;
    }

    export interface UserData {
        id: Id;
        name: string;
        vote: number | null;
    }

    export interface UserState {
        currentUserId: Id;
        users: Array<UserData>;
    }

    export interface StoreState {
        story: StoryState;
        users: UserState;
    }
    ````

- Create actions in `client\src\store\actions\types.ts`
  - UserCreate
  - UserDelete
  - UserRename
  - UserVote
  - StoryReveal
  - StoryReset

    ```typescript
    export const USER_VOTE = 'USER_VOTE';
    interface UserVoteAction {
        type: typeof USER_VOTE;
        id: Id;
        vote: number;
    }

    export type Actions = /* All actions that you've created */ | UserVoteAction;
    ```

- Create actionCreators in `client\src\store\actions\index.ts`

    ```typescript
    import { Actions, USER_VOTE } from './types';
    import { Id } from '../model';

    export function UserVoteRequest(id: Id, vote: number): Actions {
        return {
            type: USER_VOTE,
            id: id,
            vote: vote,
        };
    }
    ```

- Create reducers
  - StoryReducer `client\src\store\reducers\storyReducer.ts`

    ```typescript
    import { StoryState } from "../model";
    import { Actions } from "../actions/types";

    export const initialStoryState: StoryState = {
        Title: '(no title)',
        IsVoteRevealed: true
    };

    export default function storyReducer(state = initialStoryState, action: Actions): StoryState {
        switch (action.type) {
            default:
                return state;
        }
    }
    ```

  - UserReducer `client\src\store\reducers\userReducer.ts`

    ```typescript
    import { UserState, UserData } from '../model';
    import { USER_VOTE, Actions } from '../actions/types';
    import update from 'immutability-helper';

    export const initialUserState: UserState = {
        currentUserId: 'aaa',
        users: [ { id: 'aaa', name: 'Bob', vote: null } ],
    };

    export default function userReducer(state = initialUserState, action: Actions): UserState {
        switch (action.type) {
            /* ... */
            case USER_VOTE:
                if (!state.users.find(u => u.id === action.id)) {
                    return state;
                }

                let userVoteIndex = state.users.findIndex(u => u.id === action.id);
                const userWithVote: UserData = update(state.users[userVoteIndex], { vote: { $set: action.vote } });
                const updatedUsers: UserData[] = update(state.users, {
                    $splice: [[userVoteIndex, 1, userWithVote]],
                });
                return { ...state, users: updatedUsers };

            default:
                return state;
        }
    }
    ```

- Create store in `client\src\store\index.ts`

    ```typescript
    import logger from 'redux-logger';
    import userReducer, { initialUserState } from './reducers/userReducer';
    import storyReducer, { initialStoryState } from './reducers/storyReducer';
    import { createStore, combineReducers, applyMiddleware, compose } from 'redux';
    import { StoreState } from './model';

    const rootReducer = combineReducers({
        story: storyReducer,
        users: userReducer,
    });

    export type AppState = ReturnType<typeof rootReducer>;

    export const initialState: StoreState = {
        story: initialStoryState,
        users: initialUserState,
    };

    export default function CreateStore() {
        return createStore(rootReducer, initialState, compose(applyMiddleware(logger)));
    }
    ```

- Create connected component Deck in `client\src\containers\deck.tsx`

    ```typescript
    import React, { Component } from 'react';
    import { connect } from 'react-redux';
    import { StoreState, UserData } from '../store/model';
    import { UserVoteRequest } from '../store/actions';
    import Cards from '../components/cards';

    interface DeckContainerProps {
        currentUserId: string;
        currentUser: UserData | undefined;
        SelectedValue: number | null;
    }

    interface DeckContainerDispatch {
        VoteAction: typeof UserVoteRequest;
    }

    class DeckContainer extends Component<DeckContainerProps & DeckContainerDispatch> {
        onSelect = (newValue: number) => {
            this.props.VoteAction(this.props.currentUserId, newValue);
        };

        render() {
            return <Cards SelectedValue={this.props.SelectedValue} onSelect={this.onSelect}></Cards>;
        }
    }

    function mapStateToProps(state: StoreState): DeckContainerProps {
        const currentUserId = state.users.currentUserId;
        const currentUser = state.users.users.find(u => u.id === currentUserId);

        return {
            currentUserId: currentUserId,
            currentUser: currentUser,
            SelectedValue: currentUser !== undefined ? currentUser.vote : null,
        };
    }

    const mapDispatchToProps: DeckContainerDispatch = {
        VoteAction: UserVoteRequest,
    };

    export default connect(mapStateToProps, mapDispatchToProps)(DeckContainer);
    ```

- Inject store using redux Provider into App

    ```typescript
    import React from 'react';
    import { Provider } from 'react-redux';
    import CreateStore from './store';
    import Deck from './containers/deck';

    const store = CreateStore();

    export default class App extends React.Component {
        render() {
            return (
                <Provider store={store}>
                    <div className="App">
                        <Deck />
                    </div>
                </Provider>
            );
        }
    }
    ```

## Socket.io

https://medium.com/dailyjs/combining-react-with-socket-io-for-real-time-goodness-d26168429a34

Commit message:

Added images for Redux lifecycle

README.md, after:

# Creating React app from scratch using CLI (command line interface)

- [Creating React app from scratch using CLI (command line interface)](#creating-react-app-from-scratch-using-cli-command-line-interface)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Initialise react app](#initialise-react-app)
  - [HelloWorld component](#helloworld-component)
  - [TypeScript](#typescript)
  - [Material UI and Icons](#material-ui-and-icons)
  - [Storybook with TypeScript](#storybook-with-typescript)
    - [Storybook/knobs](#storybookknobs)
    - [Storybook/state](#storybookstate)
  - [Classnames](#classnames)
  - [Redux](#redux)
    - [redux-logger](#redux-logger)
    - [immutability-helper](#immutability-helper)
  - [Socket.io](#socketio)

## Prerequisites

- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
  - Extensions: 
    - Prettier   (to enable formattign: `File` => `Preferences` =>  `Settings`, check `Format On Save`)
    - TSLint
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/)
- [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/)

## Initialise react app

Open Visual Studio Code, navigate to folder where you'd like to create your application. Press `ctrl + ~` to open terminal (powershell) and inter those commands:

```javascript
yarn global add create-react-app        // installs create-react-app script **globally** on machine
mkdir client                            // create-react-app will fail if folder doesn't start with lowercase
create-react-app client
cd client
yarn                                    // download all dependencies into node_modules
yarn start                              // starts development server (watch)
yarn test                               // runs tests (watch)
```

## HelloWorld component

Create file `helloworld.jsx` in `client\components` folder. Inside create a simple react component that can be later mounted in App:

```typescript
class HelloWorld extends React.Component {
    render() {
        return <h1>Hello, {this.props.name}</h1>;
    }
}
```

Add proper import to App.js and include new component in it's render method:

```typescript
import HelloWorld from './components/helloworld'
```

____

## TypeScript

Detailed instruction can be found [on create-react-app website](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/adding-typescript/)

```javascript
yarn global add tslint typescript
yarn add typescript @types/node @types/react @types/react-dom @types/jest
```

- rename `App.js` => `App.tsx` (`.ts` won't work, since App uses JSX syntax)
- modify existing HelloWorld component to use TypeScript:

    ```typescript
    import React from 'react';
    import { createStyles, WithStyles, withStyles, Theme } from '@material-ui/core/styles';

    const styles = (theme: Theme) =>
        createStyles({
            wrapper: {
                backgroundColor: theme.palette.primary.main,
            },
        });

    interface HelloWorldProps {
        name: string;
    }

    class HelloWorld extends React.Component<HelloWorldProps & WithStyles<typeof styles, true>> {
        render() {
            return <h1 className={this.props.classes.wrapper}>Hello, {this.props.name}</h1>;
        }
    }

    export default withStyles(styles, { withTheme: true })(HelloWorld);
    ```

- restart development server  (yarn start)

____

## Material UI and Icons

We will be adding [material ui](https://material-ui.com/) since it's good support.

```javascript
yarn add @material-ui/core @material-ui/icons
```

____

## Storybook with TypeScript

Detailed instructions can be found [on storybook website](https://storybook.js.org/docs/guides/guide-react/)

```javascript
npx -p @storybook/cli sb init --type react
```

[Typescript configuration](https://storybook.js.org/docs/configurations/typescript-config/)

```javascript
yarn add -D typescript awesome-typescript-loader @storybook/addon-info react-docgen-typescript-loader jest "@types/jest" ts-jest
```

- create `client/.storybook/webpack.config.js` with this contents:

    ```typescript
    module.exports = ({ config }) => {
        config.module.rules.push({
            test: /\.(ts|tsx)$/,
            use: [
                {
                    loader: require.resolve('awesome-typescript-loader'),
                },
                // Optional
                {
                    loader: require.resolve('react-docgen-typescript-loader'),
                },
            ],
        });
        config.resolve.extensions.push('.ts', '.tsx');
        return config;
    };
    ```

- modify `client/.storybook/config.js`  change line 4 to:

    ```typescript
    configure(require.context('../stories', true, /\.stories\.tsx$/), module);
    ```

- ceate new story with `.tsx` extension

    ```typescript
    import React from 'react';
    import { storiesOf } from '@storybook/react';
    import Card from '../src/components/card';

    storiesOf('Cards', module).add('Single card', () => (
        <Card Value={3} IsSelected={false} onSelection={val => {}} />
    ));
    ```

### Storybook/knobs

Add support for [Knobs](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/tree/master/addons/knobs)

```javascript
yarn add @storybook/addon-knobs --dev
```

- Add `import '@storybook/addon-knobs/register';` to `client/.storybook/addons.js`

Adding knobs to the story, require adding a decorator and import:

```typescript
/* ... */
import { text, withKnobs, boolean, number } from '@storybook/addon-knobs';

storiesOf('Cards', module)
    .addDecorator(withKnobs)            // add decorator here
    .add('Single card', () => <Card Title={text('Title', 'Test title')} />);
```

### Storybook/state

To add support for [Storybook/State](https://github.com/dump247/storybook-state)

```javascript
yarn add @dump247/storybook-state --dev
```

Modify a story to add state object

```typescript
storiesOf('Cards', module)
    .addDecorator(withKnobs)
    .add(
        'Card with knobs and store',
        withState({ IsSelected: false })(({ store }) => (
            <Card
                Value={number('Value', 3)}
                IsSelected={store.state.IsSelected}
                onClick={() => {
                    store.set({ IsSelected: !store.state.IsSelected });
                    action('clicked');
                }}
            />
        ))
    )
```

____

## Classnames

You can use [Classnames](https://www.npmjs.com/package/classnames) for Easier management of conditional classes in JSX components

```javascript
yarn add classnames @types/classnames
```

If you want to switch classes from `normal` to `selected` but always keep `card` class on target object, this will be proper syntax using `classnames`:

```typescript
var wrapperClasses = classNames({
    [classes.card]: true,
    [classes.selected]: this.props.IsSelected,
    [classes.normal]: !this.props.IsSelected,
});
```

____

## Redux

![Redux lifecycle](images/redux-lifecycle.png "Redux lifecycle")

- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/53111195/typescript-with-classnames-no-index-signature
- https://redux.js.org/recipes/usage-with-typescript
- Working example: https://codesandbox.io/s/w02m7jm3q7

```javascript
yarn add redux react-redux redux-actions @types/react-redux @types/redux-actions
```

### redux-logger

Redux logger outputs each action (and state) to console

```javascript
yarn add redux-logger @types/redux-logger
```

After adding package you need to configure store to use logger as middleware in `client\src\store\index.ts` file.

![Redux lifecycle with middleware](images/redux-architecture-overview-middleware.png "Redux lifecycle with middleware")

### immutability-helper

In order to modify state without mutating it (required for Redux state) we can use [react imutability helper](https://github.com/kolodny/immutability-helper). If they're used incorreclty they can break TypeScript!

```javascript
yarn add immutability-helper
```

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/35628774/how-to-update-single-value-inside-specific-array-item-in-redux

- Create store schema/structure in `client\src\store\model\index.ts`

    ````typescript
    export type Id = string;

    export interface StoryState {
        Title: string;
        IsVoteRevealed: boolean;
    }

    export interface UserData {
        id: Id;
        name: string;
        vote: number | null;
    }

    export interface UserState {
        currentUserId: Id;
        users: Array<UserData>;
    }

    export interface StoreState {
        story: StoryState;
        users: UserState;
    }
    ````

- Create actions in `client\src\store\actions\types.ts`
  - UserCreate
  - UserDelete
  - UserRename
  - UserVote
  - StoryReveal
  - StoryReset

    ```typescript
    export const USER_VOTE = 'USER_VOTE';
    interface UserVoteAction {
        type: typeof USER_VOTE;
        id: Id;
        vote: number;
    }

    export type Actions = /* All actions that you've created */ | UserVoteAction;
    ```

- Create actionCreators in `client\src\store\actions\index.ts`

    ```typescript
    import { Actions, USER_VOTE } from './types';
    import { Id } from '../model';

    export function UserVoteRequest(id: Id, vote: number): Actions {
        return {
            type: USER_VOTE,
            id: id,
            vote: vote,
        };
    }
    ```

- Create reducers
  - StoryReducer `client\src\store\reducers\storyReducer.ts`

    ```typescript
    import { StoryState } from "../model";
    import { Actions } from "../actions/types";

    export const initialStoryState: StoryState = {
        Title: '(no title)',
        IsVoteRevealed: true
    };

    export default function storyReducer(state = initialStoryState, action: Actions): StoryState {
        switch (action.type) {
            default:
                return state;
        }
    }
    ```

  - UserReducer `client\src\store\reducers\userReducer.ts`

    ```typescript
    import { UserState, UserData } from '../model';
    import { USER_VOTE, Actions } from '../actions/types';
    import update from 'immutability-helper';

    export const initialUserState: UserState = {
        currentUserId: 'aaa',
        users: [ { id: 'aaa', name: 'Bob', vote: null } ],
    };

    export default function userReducer(state = initialUserState, action: Actions): UserState {
        switch (action.type) {
            /* ... */
            case USER_VOTE:
                if (!state.users.find(u => u.id === action.id)) {
                    return state;
                }

                let userVoteIndex = state.users.findIndex(u => u.id === action.id);
                const userWithVote: UserData = update(state.users[userVoteIndex], { vote: { $set: action.vote } });
                const updatedUsers: UserData[] = update(state.users, {
                    $splice: [[userVoteIndex, 1, userWithVote]],
                });
                return { ...state, users: updatedUsers };

            default:
                return state;
        }
    }
    ```

- Create store in `client\src\store\index.ts`

    ```typescript
    import logger from 'redux-logger';
    import userReducer, { initialUserState } from './reducers/userReducer';
    import storyReducer, { initialStoryState } from './reducers/storyReducer';
    import { createStore, combineReducers, applyMiddleware, compose } from 'redux';
    import { StoreState } from './model';

    const rootReducer = combineReducers({
        story: storyReducer,
        users: userReducer,
    });

    export type AppState = ReturnType<typeof rootReducer>;

    export const initialState: StoreState = {
        story: initialStoryState,
        users: initialUserState,
    };

    export default function CreateStore() {
        return createStore(rootReducer, initialState, compose(applyMiddleware(logger)));
    }
    ```

- Create connected component Deck in `client\src\containers\deck.tsx`

    ```typescript
    import React, { Component } from 'react';
    import { connect } from 'react-redux';
    import { StoreState, UserData } from '../store/model';
    import { UserVoteRequest } from '../store/actions';
    import Cards from '../components/cards';

    interface DeckContainerProps {
        currentUserId: string;
        currentUser: UserData | undefined;
        SelectedValue: number | null;
    }

    interface DeckContainerDispatch {
        VoteAction: typeof UserVoteRequest;
    }

    class DeckContainer extends Component<DeckContainerProps & DeckContainerDispatch> {
        onSelect = (newValue: number) => {
            this.props.VoteAction(this.props.currentUserId, newValue);
        };

        render() {
            return <Cards SelectedValue={this.props.SelectedValue} onSelect={this.onSelect}></Cards>;
        }
    }

    function mapStateToProps(state: StoreState): DeckContainerProps {
        const currentUserId = state.users.currentUserId;
        const currentUser = state.users.users.find(u => u.id === currentUserId);

        return {
            currentUserId: currentUserId,
            currentUser: currentUser,
            SelectedValue: currentUser !== undefined ? currentUser.vote : null,
        };
    }

    const mapDispatchToProps: DeckContainerDispatch = {
        VoteAction: UserVoteRequest,
    };

    export default connect(mapStateToProps, mapDispatchToProps)(DeckContainer);
    ```

- Inject store using redux Provider into App

    ```typescript
    import React from 'react';
    import { Provider } from 'react-redux';
    import CreateStore from './store';
    import Deck from './containers/deck';

    const store = CreateStore();

    export default class App extends React.Component {
        render() {
            return (
                <Provider store={store}>
                    <div className="App">
                        <Deck />
                    </div>
                </Provider>
            );
        }
    }
    ```

## Socket.io

https://medium.com/dailyjs/combining-react-with-socket-io-for-real-time-goodness-d26168429a34
